#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "times" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2.5cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Dear Editor,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Thank you very much for the review of our manuscript 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Geometrically nonlinear flexural analysis of multilayered composite plate
 using polynomial and non-polynomial shear deformation theories
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We sincerely appreciate all valuable comments and suggestions, which helped
 us to improve the quality of the article.
 Our responses to the reviewer's comments are described below in a point-to-poin
t manner.
 Appropriated changes, suggested by the reviewers, has been introduced to
 the manuscript (highlighted within the manuscript).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We hope that our manuscript will be acceptable for publication in Aerospace
 Science and Technology.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Yours sincerely,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Babu Ranjan Thakur
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
corresponding author
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Reviewer #1: No comments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Reviewer #2:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Query 
\series default
2— authors are mentioning [71, 72] for their patch recovery.
 However, such procedure which was demonstrated to be super-convergent has
 been applied to Poisson-type equations.
 The procedure has not been proven to be super-convergent for plates which
 unlikely it would be.
 It is suggested to report the algebraic equations used by the authors to
 carry out post-processing of stresses.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset VSpace smallskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Reply : As per the reviewer's suggestion, a dedicated subsection 3.3 named
 as stress-recovery technique over the surface has been added in the updated
 manuscript and the same has been highlighted with magenta color.
 In this subsection, a detailed procedure with various illustrations along
 with algebraic equations has been shown in a comprehensive manner.
 To avoid the repetition in section 4.3, the lines corresponding to stress
 recovery are modified and changes are highlighted with magenta color.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset VSpace medskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Query 
\series default
3— what stated is not completely true, since 3D equilibrium should be always
 valid both in linear and non-linear regimes.
 Thus, since the present approach considers an engineering theory and not
 a 3D elastic solution the correct and real shear components of stress can
 be obtained only via recovery processes which have been proven in the literatur
e to work in this context such as 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
-- https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1097-0207(19990410)44:10<1481::AID-NME554>3.0.CO;2-
Q 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
-- https://doi.org/10.1080/15376494.2015.1121521 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
-- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compstruct.2020.112675 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
-- https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compositesb.2017.06.012
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset VSpace smallskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Reply : We would like to thank you for the comments and pointing out our
 mistake of not clearly stating out about the constitutive approach used
 for calculating the transverse stresses.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Yes, the 3D equilibrium approach is valid for both linear and non-linear
 regimes.
 Further, the correct and real shear components of transverse stresses can
 be obtained only via recovery processes due to the variation of plies in
 the thickness direction.
 Hence, it is important to use stress recovery technique in thickness direction
 using 3D equilibrium approach and the same conclusion regarding the transverse
 stresses is drawn in the conclusion section and highlighted with magenta
 color.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Furthermore, in the present study, no recovery technique has been considered
 in thickness direction to show the limitation of constitutive approach
 for Green-Lagrange strain.
 The stress recovery technique shown in section 3.3 (in the updated manuscript)
 is only for inplane distribution of stresses which is required due to the
 usage of 
\begin_inset Formula $C^{0}$
\end_inset

 Lagrange interpolation function.
 Moreover, the continuous through-thickness transverse stresses can be obtained
 by constitutive and 3D equilibrium approaches.
 Even though, the 3D equilibrium approach is an appropriate approach for
 calculating the continuous transverse stresses, the constitutive approach
 also gives reasonable values for HSDTs.
 Thus, for the constitutive approach, it is observed that the zero transverse
 stresses condition is satisfied through the linear strain-displacement
 relation.
 Moreover, this condition is also satisfied in von Kármán nonlinear model
 as well as linear model due to absence of nonlinear transverse strain-displacem
ent terms.
 However, due to the presence of nonlinear transverse strain terms in the
 Green-Lagrange nonlinear model, zero transverse stresses condition using
 constitutive approach is not satisfied at the top and bottom boundary condition.
 Hence, for accurate predication of transverse stresses, the only choice
 left is the 3D equilibrium approach in the laminated and sandwich plates.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
In the updated manuscript, the above stated explanation is clearly written
 in the section 4.3.8 and same is highlighted with magenta color.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
We would like to thank reviewers for taking the time and effort necessary
 to review the manuscript.
 We sincerely appreciate all valuable comments and suggestions, which helped
 us to improve the quality of the manuscript.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
